---
title: About
---

The Impresso Datalab is a platform for programmatic data access and annotation services and is developed by the [Impresso project](https://impresso-project.ch) which strives to create meaningful links across historical media collections. The Datalab enables custom analyses of the Impresso corpus and the semantic indexation of external document collections also with the help of models created by the project.

The Datalab offers access to our corpus, data and models via the Impresso Public API, a dedicated Python library and via [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/impresso-project). To keep the learning curve manageable, the Datalab includes Jupyter notebooks for documentation and templates to kickstart computational analysis, visualisation and enrichment.

## Motivations for the Impresso Datalab

With the creation of the Datalab, we reflect changing scholarly practices for the interaction with digitised cultural heritage collections. Its design and development is driven by five objectives:

Complement generic data exploration via the Impresso Web App with objective-driven analysis and enrichment of datasets for specific research and teaching use cases.
Enable the semantic indexation of historical documents outside the Impresso corpus using models generated by the Impresso project.
Facilitate the linking of external research data with the Impresso corpus on the level of semantic enrichments.
Reflect changing research practices which rely on executable notebooks for the documentation and reproduction of data-driven research.
Offer accessible educational resources and notebook templates to researchers at any level of coding proficiency.

Overall, the Datalab supports researchers who are confronted with digitised collections with variable depth of annotation and seek to overcome the limitations of off-the-shelf graphical user interfaces.

## Access management

The Impresso project works with a consortium of partnering libraries and archives on the grounds of legal agreements which respect diverse copyright regulations. The Impresso Terms of Use describe which data is available and how it may be used.
Our User Plans reflect variations in access rights for the general public, students and researchers. Note that user plans will evolve in the course of the project and make sure to consult our corpus overview page to understand which data is currently available.

## Continuous development and feedback

The Datalab will remain in constant development throughout the Impresso project. We appreciate any kind of feedback on its usage and look forward to proposals for additional notebooks via info (at) impresso-project.ch.
